
Genomic Data Processing Pipeline
This study explores microbial diversity and resistance in pig fecal samples from different regions. Using Computerome, four samples were processed (NL, IT, BG, DK) with tools like FASTP, FASTQC, MultiQC, and databases like Resfinder and Silva. 
Requirements
Before running the script, ensure that the following tools and databases are installed and properly configured:
	•	fastp: For quality trimming and adapter removal
	•	fastqc: For quality control of sequencing reads
	•	multiqc: For generating a combined quality control report
	•	kma: For sequence alignment and mapping (ResFinder and Silva databases)
	•	spades: For de novo genome assembly
	•	bbmap: For alignment of reads to assembly scaffolds
	•	samtools: For manipulating and processing SAM/BAM files
	•	metabat2: For binning of assembled genomes
	•	checkm2: For checking genome completeness
	•	dRep: For dereplicating genomes to remove duplicates
	•	gtdbtk: For taxonomic classification of genomes
	•	awk: For ALR (antimicrobial resistance) calculation

Databases
The following reference databases are required:
	•	ResFinder database for resistance gene detection
	•	Silva database for rRNA sequence alignment
	•	KMA-Silva v138 database for rRNA sequence mapping
Ensure that the paths to these databases are correctly set in the script.
Setup
	1.	Clone this repository or download the script file to your local machine.
	2.	Modify the PROJECT_DIR and other directory paths to match your project setup.
	3.	Set the paths to the required databases in the script.

Running the Pipeline
1. Configuration
Ensure the following variables are set according to your project:
	•	PROJECT_DIR: The root directory of your project
	•	TRIM_DIR: Directory where trimmed reads will be stored
	•	KMA_DIR: Directory for KMA results
	•	SILVA_DIR: Directory for Silva results
	•	ASSEMBLY_DIR: Directory for assembled genomes
	•	MAPPED_DIR: Directory for alignment results
	•	BINS_DIR: Directory for genomic bins
	•	CHECKM2_DIR: Directory for CheckM2 results
	•	DREP_DIR: Directory for dRep results
	•	GTDB_DIR: Directory for GTDB-Tk results
	•	SAMPLES: List of sample identifiers to be processed

2. Execute the Script
To run the pipeline, execute the following command from your terminal:
bash
CopyEdit
bash pipeline.sh

3. Output
The script will create various output directories under PROJECT_DIR:
	•	Trim: Contains the quality-trimmed sequences.
	•	fastqc: Contains the FASTQC reports for quality checks.
	•	multiqc: Contains the combined MultiQC report.
	•	kma: Contains the mapping results from KMA (ResFinder and Silva).
	•	assemblies: Contains the genome assembly results.
	•	mapped: Contains the mapped reads in BAM format.
	•	bins: Contains the genomic bins from Metabat2.
	•	checkm2: Contains the CheckM2 completeness analysis.
	•	drep2: Contains the dereplicated genomes from dRep.
	•	gtdb: Contains the taxonomic classification results from GTDB-Tk.

4. ALR Calculation
The script calculates the ALR (Antimicrobial Resistance Log) for each sample based on pre-defined FPKM (Fragments Per Kilobase of transcript per Million mapped reads) values and prints the results.
